---
layout: post
title:  "Fantasy fiction!"
date:   2020-12-14 01:03:29 +0200
categories: books
comments: true
---
My thoughts on some of my favorite fantasy fiction novels.

<!--more-->
During my school days I had to travel a lot daily. That gave me the oppurtunity to explore the world of story telling. An important contributing factor towards this was the access multiple libraries in my school - from Famous Five to Mein Kampf, the options were never ending. I developed an interest in novels when we had to do a book review as part of the curriculum at 7th standard. I choose 'Around the World in 80 Days' by Jules Verne, fantastic book for all age groups! The book was a delight, there was never a boring moment and the ending was not something a kid might expect! Reading this book got me curious and I became a recurring visitor to the libraries. During my next few years in the school, I read a lot of books, written by Enid Blyton, JK Rowling, Dan Brown, Christopher Poulini etc. Harry Potter books were my entry into fantasy fiction genre, I enjoyed it a lot in my school days, giving it multiple readings. After my 10th, I joined a different school and with the tight schedule, it gave me little time to read regularly. I also had access to large number of Perry Mason books which belonged to my late grandfather. I ended up reading about 80 of those books, really good detective/lawyer stories!

During my engineering, I picked the habit again, this is where it really took off. I had read Eragon before, so I started with the inheritence cycle. Eragon itself was fascinating to me as I had seen the movie and really liked it. I always looked forward to the interactions between Eragon and Saphira, they felt natural and without effort. Those are probably my favorite charecter interactions in any book. Over the years, I have been rereading it, atleast once an year.

After reading the inheritance cycle, I realised I wanted a lot more of it from the books -  Longer stories, drawn out charecter arcs, large-scale worldbuilding. So naturally, I turned to Chetan Bhagat books.. just kidding, it's the Lord of the Rings triology by the one and only J. R. R. Tolkien. I had seen the movies casually before, but hadn't really paid close attention to it. Now, to be honest, I liked the books yes but not to the point of worshipping it. I really liked the charecters and the world but the writing? not really. The movie(extended version) did a good job on adapting the books(yes there are a few cringey moments but nothing as memorable as the angry Dumbledore moment), so I keep rewatching them. Anyway, back to the books, giving credit where it is due, Tolkien inspired a large number of works in the fantasy fiction  genre. The resemblence is obvious in a lot of famous works. A wise and strong elderly charecter tutoring clueless protagonists of the secrets of the world around them as they prepare themselves towards danger? Don't tell me you have not seen it before. Now, it may have started before LOTR, but he was instrumental to its adaptation in the future.

While I was reading other books, I also started watching few television shows, such as the game of thrones. I heard about it during the Season5 hype and started watching it soon. How was it? The hype was worth it. I was new to TV shows, I didn't know back then that I would watch one of the best ones that early. Once I was up to date with the series, I turned to the books. Oh my, George R. R. Martin knew what he doing, I immersed myself completely into his world. There was soo much mystery, dangling threads, some of them solvable to the readers on closer inspection, it was an exciting read. But this is one book I don't want to reread. This is probably because I was adultrated by the show, deeming it a superior alternative to the books(lets not talk about the last season). I only aspects I didn't like about the adaptation was the absense/poorer version of plots such as the citadel, Eulon, Dorne etc. Otherwise it was adequate enough for the book plots. I will obviously read the next books on this saga to get a better ending but otherwise, I don't see myself reading the books from ASOIAF in the future.

One book series which I really liked was the Kingkiller Chronicles. It was not special to me in any way but the narrative was extraordinary. I just liked reading it and see what the writer had to tell. I don't even remember the story or the charecters, though I remember theorising how the author could combine the different plots into conclusion in a single book. Hoping that the next book releases soon!

Now to the books I really wanted to write about. I would go through different lists online to choose the next books to read and I would see this book series pop up from time to time. It was a celebrated series supposedly but no one I knew had even heard of it. So I was sceptical in the begining, I read first few pages of book1 and dropped it, then I picked it up again few weeks later and that was when fantasy fiction became my favourite genre. It was the Wheel of Time series. Let me tell you few details about the books. The main storyline line is divided into 14 books, 11.5k pages in total. There was more then 2500 named charecters with 3 protagonists and a lot of other important charecters whom we follow consistently. So yes, it is huge in the width and depth of charecters, plot lines. The Dragonmount moment gives me the chills every single time I read it. That in itself made all the critisim of the series insignificant. Wheel of Time is special to me because it combines mystery, adventure, politics, art, romance, combat, philosophy, culture elegently throughout the series. It does have a rough patch in a few later books which I skim through, but overall there is nothing else to compare this to.

I adore WoT for another reason- I got to know about Brandon Sanderson. You see, Wheel of Times was written mostly by Robert Jordan. He passed away before finsihing the series and an upcoming author, Sanderson wrote the last 3 books. After reading WoT, I started going through the books written by Sanderson. That is when I started reading mistborn. The mistborn series is actually a triology but the first book itself is brilliant. One of the main charecter, Kelsier, on closer examination, has many attributes which wouldn't part of an ideal 'good' person. But the way the author has written him, he is my favourite charecter by far. Mistborn is a small book with a seemingly straightforward story and it is a pleasure on every reread.

Recently, I read started reading a new series by Sanderson, the stormlight archive. It is a 10 book series with 4 published as of now. I have read the first 3 as of December 2020 . My opinion of this will obviously vary as I read more of the series in the coming years. As of now, I like a lot of things about it though I feel a few things could have done a lot better. I don't really have anything negative to talk about it, just that it didn't live up to the hype on certain plotlines. But then, it hasn't even reached midway so I don't think it is right to judge it at this moment. It is a delight to read, I hope the rest of the books are released as soon as possible(probably 10-15 years :-[ )

These were my thoughts some of my favorite fantasy fiction I read! To summarise, Wheel of Time is my favorite by far, followed by stormlight archi ve, mistborn. Harry potter will 'always' be special to me, not sure exacty why it is the case. Let me ponder regarding it another day. I have read a lot of other books of other genre but I tend to get bored from those easily and I finish them only because I already started it. Fantasy fiction is the only genre I can read on and on for days. Super fond of these captivating large-scale stories which are literally out of this world!
