---
layout: post
title:  "Week 1: Anime like slow charecter developement"
date:   2020-04-17 01:03:29 +0200
categories: progress
comments: true
---
The wind blows! Picks up speed! Here comes singularity xD

<!--more-->
Week 1 started pretty slow honestly. Been a month since I studied anything so I kinda expected it. Starting with a couple of hours and ending with full day studying, it did go well later on :D

So what happened? To start with, I picked a course which I was really interested in, not only for the topic but for the teacher. David Silver! Yup, the UCL/Deepmind RL course. After following the AlphaGo story and watching it's documentary, I had gone through few mins of the course back then and loved how he taught! Now, after watching it fully(~15 hours), I loved it absolutely! The math and the intuition behind all the methods, it's progression from the basic stages, seeing how planing and control combines at the end, it was such a delight! RL theory is fun :D

Along with it, I also started a bayesian DL course from DeepBayes(mostly HSE profs). Have to complete this next week.

Now, coding! Been many many years(~5) since I used cpp so went through a good amount of basic cpp theory, practiced some simple problems to get a feel. Then a lot of leetcode with python. Mainly easy/medium problems with a couple of hard, along with DP.

On research, lot of good stuff! So I started with my research on a prior work we had done, 2 papers on it. First paper, wrote small changes in draft and this week need to modify based on advisor's inputs. Second paper, wrote a lot of code, experimented non stop for 3-4 days and got some great results! Wrote about 80% of the paper, waiting for all the results to comeplete it. Loving it! Also got a bunch of new research ideas, mainly on CNNs, model distillation, alternate architectures and attention. Next to start chalking(sadly not literaly, no chalk atm :( ) out the math for it and code it. 

Havn't really found a good paper I am interested in reading sadly. There's a lot of good work recently on some specific units in a model or understanding some underlying statistics but I am looking for some good major architecture changes which works on small datasets. (Can't go on training transformer models or RL) Nevertheless, I'll keep looking!

Demon slayer is awesome btw, Bye!  
