---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3"
date:   2020-05-1 01:03:29 +0200
categories: progress
comments: true
---
Are we on the right path?

<!--more-->

 So this week I have been reading a lot of recent works in different domain and I have to ask, are we on the right path? Hundreds of papers improving a metric by 1%, is this how we understand and replicate intelligence? I fully understand the nature of research, the necessity of incremenal progress but it confuses me, what separates the innovaters in the field from the others? Is it ideas? being at the right place? dumb luck while mass experimenting? I would like to think, questioning the things in place, goining back to first principles is what is necceasary, but who am I and what have I done? Probably something I can focus on when I get into a PhD program, till then follow the herd? Anyway lets get back to out weekly update, for now. 

Deep supervised learning lectures were a blast! really liked it, a fascinating research area! The coursework was harder than expected, coding LOTS of recent models, never seen soo much coursework, is it a Berkeley thing? Enjoyable nonetheless. 
NeuRIPs deadline in month, I have many ideas listed, gonna try them out, see if there are any noticable results, lets see how that goes.
I was looking into PhD programs in India, the qualifying exams and further steps. The question is do I study for the exam(GATE/CSIR NET) or I would rather spend the time on learning and researching? I would prefer the latter. Right now I want to spend all my time on becoming a better researcher and not study college materials again. That means PhD at a foreign Uni. But I do not know how that will fare during these times. Applications open in a few months, let us see. 
Objectives for next week? Cover the recent works in RL, experiment on NeuRIPS ideas. Until next time, sayonara.
