---
layout: post
title:  "Finding meaning in the dark times"
date:   2020-06-24 01:03:29 +0200
categories: thoughtful
comments: true
---
Humanity as a whole is going through the toughest periods in recent history. This is an account of my thoughts on how we perceive life.

<!--more-->

At the time of writing, there have been 9M reported cases of COVID-19 with 469K people meeting the end of their lives due to this pandemic. What started as an isolated origin at Wuhan, China has spread to 213 countries bringing life to a standstill. The economic loss is over trillion dollars and the world looking at negative GDP growth. 75 years ago, it was WW2 that engulfed and restructured the world and now the ramifications of Corona is going to bring about the task again. During these troubled times, I ask myself - 'What is this supposed to mean for humanity? What does it mean for an individual?'

I've been fortunate. Extremely fortunate, I must stress. On March 19, I left my job and reached home. 5 days later, the Government of India declared nation-wide lockdown to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. For the past 3 months, I've been home, studying to become a researcher. A loving family, home at a relatively isolated location, electronic devices and internet to work with, what more I could ask for? We do not understand the extent of our previlage until we look at the reality around the world.

Millions of people all around the world have lost their livelihood. In India, 27 million youth of age 20-30 lost their jobs. Crores of migrants were stuck with nowhere to go during the lockdown. I have heard first hand accounts of the state of migrants, make-shift shelters with no proper arrangements for food, had to wait for weeks to get back to their home town. How lucky we are to have access to anything we need and there are crores of people struggling for their basic needs. Well, it only takes a pandemic for us to understand real human suffering, there's that.

My heart goes out to all the students who were graduating in 2020 with hopes and dreams of jobs, higher education all reduced to dust by the effect of the virus. Years of hardwork, passion, fortitude and all gone in vain due to the wrath of nature. This makes me question, where does our aspirations and ambitions stand in the face of such adversity to humanity? When human societies first began communicating with each other thousands of years back, it was mainly about survival. Ensure food, water, protection from wildlife, these were the basic needs for humanity. It took many millennials for socities and civilisations to come together where a new way of life began. We have come a long way since then to a world of relative peace and stability with a profusion of ways to lead one's life where survival is taken for granted. Where do we come in individually with context to humanity as a whole? Would it be appropriate for an individual to rise above disregarding the suffering of crores of people around? One could say, every man(or woman) for themselves, where they reach is due to their abilities alone and they aren't answerable to anyone. Is this mentality really right speaking from the position of privilage? One could counter-argue that they can affect change and contribute to others better from the position they wish to achieve. One person who actually did this was Bill Gates. When he was leading Microsift, he was hated for his ruthlessness and 'selfishness'. Now the Bill & Melinda foundation has accomplished soo much around the world, so were people right in critising Bill back then? Or was that critisism necessary for him to turn out to the person he is today?

I do not know the answers to any of these questions. I think every person has a right to deicde how it should be for them and stay true to it. Personally, I've realised how grateful I'm and will always ensure to be thoughtful about the people around me, help where I can. I will be unapologetic about selfishly pursuing my passion on research. The world is a stage, we are the countless charecters who come and go, the show must go on. I hope that someday with my work I can contribute back to this world. Until then, I'll keep pondering, for the mind can't slow down.

